feat: Clearer RN documentation on Source Maps and release and dist values (#3841)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps.mdx

---
title: Source Maps
sidebar_order: 95
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/react-native/manual-setup/source maps/
description: "Learn more about how to upload your source maps to Sentry."
---

> To get unminified stack traces for JavaScript code, source maps must be generated and uploaded. The React Native SDK handles source maps _automatically_ for iOS with Xcode and Android with Gradle. However, if you use custom values for your release other than the version included with the build in XCode or Android Studio, you will need to manually upload source maps.

Reviewer: clarifying q: while you can set dist and release, that interferes with the use of the automatic upload, correct? Asking because I think we'd want the easy path noted pretty clearly as source maps is often a source of confusion.

Suggest something like:
```suggestion
To get unminified stack traces for JavaScript code, source maps must be generated and uploaded. The React Native SDK handles source maps _automatically_ for iOS with Xcode and Android with Gradle, if you do not use custom values. 

However, if you use custom values for your release other than the version included with the build in XCode or Android Studio, the automatic source maps upload script will no longer work because it does not detect custom values. As a result, you'll need to manually upload source maps using these steps:
```

Author: Correct, setting dist and release instantly makes the auto sourcemaps useless and they'll be attributed to the default release and dist.

> ### The Release and Distribution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Set the Release and Distribution
```

> For events sent from Sentry to correctly be attributed to a release and subsequently its source maps, **both the `release` and `dist` values will need to be set.** You can set these values in the call to `init` which you can read about in [Releases & Health](/platforms/react-native/configuration/releases/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For events sent from Sentry to correctly be attributed to a release and subsequently its source maps, **both the `release` and `dist` values will need to be set.** You can set these values in the call to `init`, as discussed in our [Releases & Health content](/platforms/react-native/configuration/releases/).
```

> ### Disabling the Automatic Source Maps Upload Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Disable the automatic source maps upload script
```

When you set a custom release or manually upload source maps, you will need to disable the automatic source map upload script:

> On iOS you will need to [revert the build script "Bundle React Native code and images"](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup/#bundle-react-native-code-and-images).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In iOS, [revert the build script "Bundle React Native code and images"](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup/#bundle-react-native-code-and-images).
```

> On Android you will need to [remove the gradle integration](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup/#enable-gradle-integration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In Android, [remove the gradle integration](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup/#enable-gradle-integration).
```

> ## Preparing the Source Maps for a Release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Preparing Source Maps for a Release
```

> You will need to generate and upload the source maps at build time for every release of your app for the events sent to be correctly unminified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to generate and upload the source maps at build time for **every release** of your app for the events sent to be correctly unminified. To do so, follow these steps:
```

> ### Configure CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Configure CLI
```

Configure the CLI by reviewing the [configuration guide](https://docs.sentry.io/product/cli/configuration/) for CLI commands.

> ### Generating the Bundle and Source Maps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Generate the bundle and source maps
```

> You would use the React Native CLI to generate the JavaScript bundle and source maps for your app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the React Native CLI to generate the JavaScript bundle and source maps for your app:
```

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
react-native bundle \
  --dev false \
  --platform android \
  --entry-file index.android.js \
  --bundle-output index.android.bundle \
  --sourcemap-output index.android.bundle.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
react-native bundle \
  --dev false \
  --platform ios \
  --entry-file index.ios.js \
  --bundle-output main.jsbundle \
  --sourcemap-output main.jsbundle.map
```

> [You can read more about the React Native CLI Bundle command here.](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/blob/master/docs/commands.md#bundle)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Learn more about the React Native CLI bundle command](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/blob/master/docs/commands.md#bundle).
```

> #### Input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2.1 Pass your entry file
```

> You would pass your entry file to `--entry-file` for Android or iOS respectively. By default this file is usually named `index.js`. It is often `index.android.js` and `index.ios.js` for Android and iOS respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass your entry file to `--entry-file` for Android or iOS, respectively. By default, this file is usually named `index.js`. It is often named `index.android.js` for Android or `index.ios.js` for iOS.
```

> #### Outputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2.2 Output your bundle files and source maps
```

> This will output your bundle file and source maps. By default these files are called
> 
> - iOS: `main.jsbundle` and `main.jsbundle.map`
> - Android: `index.android.bundle` and `index.android.bundle.map`
> 
> <Note>
> Make sure that the sourcemap's name is the bundle's name + ".map" for source maps to correctly be detected.
> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These files will output your bundle and source maps. By default, these files are named `index.android.bundle` and `index.android.bundle.map` for Android and `main.jsbundle` and `main.jsbundle.map` for iOS.  

<Note>

The source map's name must be the bundle's name appended with ".map" for source maps to correctly be detected.

</Note>
```

> ### Uploading the Bundle and Source Maps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Upload the bundle and source maps
```

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli releases \
    files <release> \
    upload-source maps \
    --dist <dist> \
    --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
    --rewrite index.android.bundle index.android.bundle.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
node_modules/@sentry/cli/bin/sentry-cli releases \
    files <release> \
    upload-source maps \
    --dist <dist> \
    --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
    --rewrite main.jsbundle main.jsbundle.map
```

<Note>

If you're using `sentry-cli` prior to version 1.59.0, pass `--rewrite` to the `upload-source maps` command to fix up the source maps before the upload (inlines sources and so forth). Version 1.59.0 does this automatically.

</Note>

## Troubleshooting

If source maps are still not recognized, check for warnings similar to:

> ![Missing sources warning](001-manual-source maps.png)

Author: @PeloWriter Hmm this image doesn't seem to be showing on the [preview](https://sentry-docs-aqxym6aw2.sentry.dev/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/#troubleshooting)?

Reviewer: I don't see it in the list of files in the PR, so perhaps it didn't get added? It needs to be in the same directory. Also note, that it *may* be missing a hyphen between "source" and "maps"?

Author: @PeloWriter That extra space was it, but also the fact that I didn't move the file from the `manual-setup` folder, thanks!
